[Music]
how much do you trust a World Health
Organization
zero zero so it's fair to say that you
and Ted rules are not on texting motion
a researcher was doing research on bat
related coronavirus in Wuhan and at that
time already five million people from
Chinese New Year's had left the city to
the four corners of the earth did you
ever expect someone like this to get to
the point in u.s. where everybody would
be forced to shut down for as long as
we've been shut down first of all the
models are incorrect
they are hyper-inflated and as we shut
the country down companies closed
businesses closed what is the best way
for us to get the best kind of data on
this 18 t v-- rise in t-mobile and
Sprint pushed really hard with their
lobbyists in Washington DC to have me
removed from the White House is the way
of doing business forever changed or no
we'll forget about this and move on in
the next six twelve months the strategy
of China is to become the Saudi Arabia
of data why because it drives artificial
intelligence if they were to announce
the vaccine is out and Bill Gates is
coming out with the vaccine would you
take that vaccine
did you ever think you would make good I
feel I'm suppose I could take sweet
victory I know this slice meant for me
here yeah why would you bet on Goliath
when we got red tape now you came in
giving values contagious this world of
entrepreneurs we can't no value to
haters honey run homie look what I
become I'm the one
[Music]
my guest today is General Robert
Spaulding the last time we sat down
together to do an interview was November
29 a month before this corona virus
pandemic took place and started
spreading ever since our interview we
talked about 5g and other topics about
China our interview has got nearly 10
million total views and people have
contacted us talking about his book
stealth war and it's led to people
requesting you to come back so Robert we
appreciate you for coming back and being
a guest somebody to meet again
great to be back and I brought the Hulk
with me I feel very safe we got two of
them now want to protect you and want to
protect me on this side here so Robert
let's get right into so is this a
pandemic or is this a planned emic well
I you know that's a hard question to
answer because you know we're dealing
with a totalitarian regime if we had
perfect knowledge of what the Chinese
Communist Party's plans where I think we
could answer that but you know we have
to into it
based on what facts we do have so we do
know for example that there's a p4 lab
in Wuhan that lab a researcher was doing
gain-of-function research on bat related
corona viruses and published a paper on
that and that paper talked about the
ability to infect humans we do know that
we also know that on January 7th the
w-h-o met in Geneva and talked about the
fact that there was human to human
transmission going on and in fact we
also know that in Wuhan they knew in
December there was human to human
transmission and of course we also know
that Xi Jinping met with the stand the
Politburo Standing Committee where they
and he talked about taking control of
the of the the growing pandemic at on
the 7th of January so we know that he
knew that they had human-to-human
transmission and so and let me provides
that on the 23rd of January the w-h-o
met in Geneva and talked about human
human transmission on the somewhere
around the 22nd or 23rd of January we
know that Wuhan was locked down and at
that time the Wuhan mayor made a
statement that already 5 million people
from Chinese New Year's had left the
city to the four corners of the earth so
what we know is they were doing work on
the virus we don't know if that's where
it came from or if it came from the wet
market and we can't know that because
the Chinese Communist Party's not going
to allow us into the lab they're not
going to allow us to talk to the
researchers all the data has been
scrapped we don't know what we do know
for a fact is both the Chinese Communist
Party leadership and the whu-oh
leadership knew there was human human
transmission prior to the five million
people leaving when they locked down on
so planned emic pandemic I don't know
but in terms of the origin of virus I do
know that in terms of the pandemic
itself you could call that a planned
emic because they knew that there was
human human transmission and they let
those people leave and you know the
president acted quickly to shut down
flights to and from China and thank God
he did the problem is that we kept them
coming from Europe so you see the big
infection happening in New York because
of travel coming to and from Europe
where the Chinese people that had left
Wuhan went into Europe and created the
infections that that spread to New York
so so now to manage the expectation with
the audience I think it's important to
know why you're an expert in the topic
of China Robert if you don't mind taking
a moment and sharing with the rest of us
those who haven't seen your interview on
what your experience has been with CCP
with China so you know I lived in China
for the first time
from 2002 to 2004 I was a major in the
Air Force I was an Olmstead scholar I
studied at tone G University before that
I'd spent a year studying Chinese
language at the Defense Language
Institute so I spoke Chinese I moved
there in 2002 with my family that was
right after China entered the WTO so we
went all over the country I learned
about the people the culture the history
the geography and traveled widely within
China so I really understood China I
didn't understand the Chinese Communist
Party or the government as I went on in
my career as a b2 pilot
the Air Force decided to send me back to
China to be the defense attache in the
senior defense official in Beijing in
order to prepare for that they sent me
to the Council on Foreign Relations for
a year in New York City to meet with a
lot of our industry and finance leaders
and corporate leaders I then went to the
Pentagon or advised the Chairman on
strategy with regard to China for two
years first chairman Dempsey then
chairman Dunford and during that time I
had a team of China experts that were
solely focused on understanding the
China competition with the United States
in economics finance trade infrared
information media propaganda all
elements of the competition and I went
from there to be the senior defense
official in Beijing and almost
immediately after the six months I spent
there I went to the White House to be
the senior director for strategy at the
National Security Council where I was a
chief architect for the national
security strategy that were currently
implementing with regard to the globe
but more specifically China and and if
you don't mind also sharing why you were
fired a few months later after being
hired what what caused you to be fired
when he started speaking on a certain
topic it kind of raised some eyebrows
what happened there after the national
security strategy was
primarily inform in in its in its final
form and I felt like we had the right
framework for it I started an intense
study on 5g and I brought in all the
experts not from in terms of policy but
in terms of engineering and science
really to understand the technology and
then what we did is talked about for
about six months the opportunities and
challenges with regard to 5g and at that
point I realized that we had a
significant problem with the collection
of data in democracies all over the all
over the globe by the Chinese Communist
Party and that 5g was going to actually
increase or amplify that collection of
data not just for economic benefit of
China but also for intelligence
collection and influence of our society
I wrote a I wrote a report that was
intended to stay within government to
explain those opportunities and
challenges and I actually briefed that
too many that report to many of the
cabinet members in the current trump
administration what happened was the
telco industry you know 18 t Verizon
t-mobile and Sprint found out about the
report were concerned that it might lead
to some kind of changes in terms of how
we regulate the collection of data on
Americans and pushed really hard with
their lobbyists in Washington DC to have
me removed from the White House and who
were the two characters that were not
happy about you speaking against China
who one on each side one was a Democrat
one was a Republican well you know so in
the book I talk about and it's really
it's meant to be representative of both
parties really in the influence of the
Chinese Communist Party in both parties
so in my book I talk about both senator
Mitch McConnell who has through his wife
ties to the former general secretary of
the Chinese Communist Party John's a min
and of course Joe Biden who through his
son Hunter
you know hunter had gotten I think a
billion and a half dollars from the
Chinese Communist Party for a for a
private equity fund so you know I really
tried to explain that it's happening on
both sides of the aisle perfect and the
reason why I wanted us to start there
with the bit with basis is those who
haven't seen this you know you're not
leaning one side or the other it's very
neutral and it's not a conspiracy this
isn't something where you're you know
you create content you're not a content
creator you're somebody who was a
general you're somebody that directly
had experience living in China and
you've given us your expertise based on
data you have access to that some of us
maybe don't have access to we definitely
don't have access to with the research
you can do now before I get into some of
the other stuff Robert I took this
approach with Gordon Chang that I had on
Gordon check once on that a documentary
that you were also part of with epoch
times that I think was launched a couple
weeks ago and I also had danielle de
martino booth who was also on here we
talked more on a fine inside and then
this morning I had David icon which many
would call him a conspiracy theorist
he calls himself a conspiracy researcher
and it's confused a lot of people out
there and scared to have a lot of people
because they're hearing a lot of things
I want to ask you what some claims that
are being made out there and you're a
very reasonable guy
how much credibility would you give to
this Robert if you don't mind your
saying zero maybe a little bit hundred
percent that's accurate that'll give the
audience a better understanding of where
your views are with this are you
comfortable with that sure okay number
one is coronavirus real does it exist
yes okay number two is 5g the reason for
the spread of coronavirus note number
three is that natural or is it man-made
that I would lean towards men I would
lead towards it's natural but I believe
this particular strange strain was
modified in a lab tell me why you say
that because the species of bat that is
purported to have come from doesn't it
doesn't exist in one and so the idea
that came from the Wuhan wet market and
then jumped to a civet cat
then jump to human I just find
implausible
did you see the report that came in
yesterday from an insider that said
source beliefs coronavirus originated
Wuhan Lam as part of China's efforts to
compete against us and John Roberts
asked the question from President Trump
more and more we're hearing the story we
are doing a very thorough examination of
the horrible situation
apparently there's a patient zero have
you heard about this patient zero where
the initial transmission of the virus
was back to human and that patient zero
worked at the laboratory then went into
the population and want and in its
spread how much credibility do you give
to that source and that story my sense
is you know if I was going to give a
probability to did this was this an
accident
and again I'm basing this on the fact of
the Washington Post article that said
that there was a state cable from the
u.s. embassy explaining that they were
concerned about the the the safety
precautions that are worth taking that
they witnesses were being taken in the
p4 lab in 2018 so I'm leaning towards it
was probably accidentally released as
kind of the how it how it escaped and
and so I hide I find that story
particularly because that person's been
wiped from the logs of the Wuhan
Institute of biology I find that to be
more credible than than anything okay
that's good to hear is this China
retaliating to Donald Trump due to
strong measures he took on the tariff so
it's a form of revenge and retaliation
to hurt the economy because that's the
one car Trump could use and if the
market drops into down drops it hurts
the chances of Trump getting reelected
okay so now you're talking about why
they allowed the five million people to
leave Wuhan are we still talking about
if it wasn't an accident that the virus
escaped yeah so both ways so for me it's
they knew that this was happening they
said well let it go out there because if
it does it hurts their economy we don't
like this guy he's strong
armed in us we want somebody else that
we can negotiate with we've done
dealings with Biden in the past before
we try to have Biden as president and
Trump as president okay so if we go back
to the the or the source of the virus
and I said I think it's more probable
that it was an accident that it was
accidentally released if you went to the
lower probability and said it was
purposely released then I would say the
the likelihood that it was aimed at the
United States I think would be a low
probability you know if it was purposely
released I would put as internal
domestic political reasons as more
probable in other words somebody was
trying to a damage sheet because of the
harsh measures around the
anti-corruption campaign that he's used
to basically shore up our so I would
think it would be I don't think it's
probable but if that is this explanation
I would say it's more likely that it was
domestic politics not you know aimed at
the United States now in terms of why
the five million people were allowed to
leave Wuhan it could be that at that
point they realized that they had a
problem that they couldn't contain and
rather than having that be only China
that had to deal with that and create
the economic devastation that the
coronavirus has created that it would be
much more better for them in terms of
geopolitics if the entire world was
infected because then everybody's
dealing with it not just them so that's
a complete different angle because now
you're thinking somebody from the inside
in China who is not happy with XI is a
kind of retaliating through this that's
a debate I don't think that's probable
I'm saying I think it's probable it's an
accident but if somehow we were to find
out this was purposely done you know
sometime in the future something happens
in the Chinese Communist Party is no
more and we get access to the archives
and interview
people and we find out it was done
purposely my guess is at that point if
it was we would find out that it was
aimed at she okay interesting
so so far right now we have two point
one six four million cases as of today
today is April 16 233 while I'm saying
this we have 144 thousand three hundred
thirteen death of which 33 thousand 903
is in US so knowing those numbers
knowing those numbers the other story
you're hearing about is the fact that
the death toll isn't necessarily true
because many other forms of death are
being blamed to coronavirus even though
main cause wasn't coronavirus which what
which makes it not as deadly as what a
lot of reports are coming in and you're
and you're asking me you know what i
think about that that what i'm asking
you is what how much weight you put
behind the fact that people are saying
these numbers that are coming in with
the death toll of coronavirus how deadly
it is it is not as deadly it is because
the way they're putting the reporting
they're saying it's death due to
coronavirus versus the person was going
to die anyways but they also ended up
having coronavirus so the statistics
makes it scarier with the death toll
would get in with coronavirus i don't
know if they're purposely making it
scarier i do know that we have a problem
with statistics we we actually don't
know what the true numbers are and we're
and what we're trying to do is more
finally you know resolve what the true
numbers are i think there are some
problems with the way that we're
collecting data and particularly if you
look at the you know what the CDC said
how they're going to count you know some
of that is using other means other than
a positive CoV nineteen tasks so you
know it could be that you know some
there's some miscounting there I think
the bigger problem is that we don't know
in the Labrador population the total
percentage of infected people because we
don't know how many are a symptom
attic so far apparently 1% of us has
been tested 1% of us has been tested
what what is the best way for us to get
the best kind of data on this what do
you suggest self testing is that the
only way well you know I think
statistics would say that you would do a
random sampling of the population and
that would give you the kind of data
that you need without having to test
everybody and I think if we Institute a
rambling random sampling of the
population much like we do for you know
the you know polling of data then we'd
have much closer numbers in terms of
what percentage of the of the population
has actually been influenced by the
virus okay for again that's why if the
audience is watching this you're a
reasonable man you don't get excited
about a conspiracy you're just a matter
of fact type of person which gives a lot
of comfort to some of the people that
are watching because when you do say
something there's a lot of weight behind
it no wonder the 5g video everybody was
watching saying this man seems like a
reasonable man to give his counsel
here's another one another one you're
hearing about is the fact that
coronavirus is being used as a way of
eliminating the older population to save
many countries money due to the cost of
you know insurance of the elderly what
are your thoughts about that that's just
a very cynical way of looking at the
world I just can't imagine that anybody
would come up with something like that
that's that that's more like the CIA you
know is responsible for 9/11 okay that's
good to know so that's where you are
were down one okay how about the Bill
Gates and vaccines you know the TED talk
he gave in 2015 and then you know after
he gives a TED talk for 2015 about one
of the things we have to worry about his
pandemic then I go research an interview
he did with dr. Gupta in 2011 I believe
February of 2011 where dr. Gupta asks
tens of billions of dollars over the
next ten years to make the year of the
vaccines what does that mean exactly and
I'm Bill Gates response over this decade
we believe unbelievable
can be made in both inventing new
vaccines and making sure they got they
get out to all the children who need
them we only need about six or seven
more and then you would have all the
tools to reduce reduce childhood death
reduce population growth and everything
the stability the environment etc etc
how much did this has to do with
reducing population growth because there
are people that are working I don't want
to say the word depopulation but a
method of reducing population growth
because long term we cannot sustain
constant population growth that we have
well what you see and typically in
developing countries is as they become
more wealthy they tend to produce fewer
children so it isn't they tend to top
out at and and we don't get to a
situation where you know they're over
populating their their area in fact some
of the developed countries are actually
being depopulated because they don't
have enough you know population growth
so I don't really I don't really find a
plausible that we need a vaccine to you
know you know get rid of a bunch of old
people because we have too many people I
just don't that doesn't make any sense
to me we you know we it doesn't follow
the pattern of kind of development of
societies so if if they were to announce
a vaccine is out and Bill Gates is
coming out with the vaccine would you
take that vaccine for the coronavirus
yes absolutely absolutely 100% yeah of
course tell me why are you so certain
about saying opposite there are people
that are probably flabbergasted by you
saying absolutely
well because look for most things you
know the immune systems prepared to deal
with it if something new gets introduced
you know like this corona virus who
knows what the implications are for your
health I think we come up with vaccines
to to prevent these kinds of horrible
diseases from taking a certain
percentage of our population every
single year I think you know if you look
at you know the the evolution of you
know health it's primarily because of
annotation and the germ theory of
disease that we have extended you know
lives so much but it's also true that
things like smallpox and and other
things that that were a scourge on the
earth have been eliminated because of
vaccines so vaccines play an important
role in in in population health and and
and I'm more terrified of people not
vaccinating their children for things
that can cause you know widespread
social death like this this pandemic is
really not as bad as like the Spanish
flu and so you know we we need to think
about the implications if say we had now
at this point 30 million dead how
devastating that would be so that's what
vaccines bring they bring they may
actually protect the population for
these from these really bad diseases
that tend to come out and that's why we
that's why we have scientists that are
looking at cures for this stuff so I
would absolutely take a think of vaccine
for coronavirus and I would recommend
everybody that I knew take a vaccine for
corona biosuit if we had one it is
interesting to note by the way that
we've had HIV with us for decades now
and we still don't have a vaccine so I
would I guess I would ask Bill Gates's
how is he so confident if we can't even
find a vaccine for HIV or for AIDS
excuse me where are you going with that
well I'm you know I think it's it's
gonna be a lot harder to find a vaccine
than maybe we we think it is that leads
me a whole different question before I
wrap up this section here here's my next
question for you is Robert I'm not
worried about the corona virus I'm not
worried about Kuroko by nineteen here's
my concern and you know you're hearing
about the fact that China the games they
want to play and I think you would
probably verify this they're realizing
they're not as stronger military wise as
US and if they were to ever have a
direct war that's just not their style
so they're spending more time into
biochemical warfare they're spending
more money into drug traffic and
poisoning environmental destruction
computer virus dissemination
are you familiar with that being one of
their approach that they're taking
Chinese that's that's already out there
everyone knows about that yeah so then
this is my follow up to you what what
what if it's taken this long and you're
hearing people say you know Anthony
found she say it's gonna take 12 to 18
months to get a vaccine right and you
know another doctor the other day talked
about the fact that zinc helps with the
help of quoi 9 quinine and with the help
of all these things he was talking about
that could help with this which are
symptoms of malaria which we've gone
through before but what if we have a
another pandemic another virus that
spreads that's highly deadly and it
would have very high are not score
that's you know viral and deadly how do
we cure that from spreading is this
gonna be a norm now where countries and
the world's gonna be shutting down more
often the next decade or two well you
know I think one of the things that we
could think of is how we could use
better technology to recognize that
we've have an outbreak and deal with it
in a humane way and for this I would
refer you to how Taiwan dealt with the
corona virus as opposed to the Chinese
Communist Party so in December Taiwan
the Taiwanese got noticed that they were
having these you know stars like
pneumonias viral pneumonia in Wuhan and
they sent some researchers to Wuhan to
ask some questions and the researchers
came back and said they're not answering
our questions and so right away Taiwan
instituted measures they stood up a the
CDC they started forcing checks at the
borders they'd shut down all flights
from Wuhan and and to Wuhan they started
testing people they started requiring
social distancing to mask contact
tracing they implemented the basic steps
of preventing the spread of a pandemic
and if the Chinese Communist Party had
acted like that we wouldn't be in the
raishin right now and if you look at how
Taiwan's dealt with the coronavirus a
they got very mild issues there because
they were on it you know right away and
I think what we have in this world
because you saw both Google and Apple
come out with apps to help do contact
tracing the problem with the world that
we've created and I talked about it in
the last video is it doesn't allow for
privacy so now the cops are going and
locking people up rather than you know
depending in this country on the the the
education of the population and the fact
that they're gonna do the right thing
because we live in a democracy and we
understand that the government's being
transparent and telling us hey we need
to do this in order to prevent you know
people from getting sick and dying and
we can bring technology through that and
I've actually wrote about that when I
was at air War College back in 2008 to
say we need to really prepare for a
pandemic because there we are working on
genetic genetically altering organisms
and creating organisms in the lab that
haven't existed before and if we do find
one that has an iron out of greater than
two and is a hundred percent deadly of
course you know what that means
so we need to be prepared and technology
can help us be prepared but we need to
do it in a way that protects our
democracy and today we are not doing
that I would not trust a tech company or
the Chinese Communist Party to put out
tracking stuff right now because it
doesn't you know that's why global data
protection regulations were put in place
because real is the the Europeans
realize that these tools have gotten far
too invasive into our lives and we need
to implement technology in a way that
can protect us from a pandemic but not
turn us into an authoritarian
dictatorship at the same time Robert who
do you trust to protect us today who do
you trust to make the right decisions to
make sure this can be either prevented
or this can be handled in the most
effective way
in the future when it happens again well
I would say that today we need to revamp
the CDC the CDC was clearly not prepared
to deal with a pandemic I would say in
that case that Bill Gates was right but
he's not the only one a lot of people
have said hey CDC you're not prepared
we're not doing the things the right way
I would after this is all over I would
go to Taiwan and basically say show us
what you did and then let's figure out
how in our democracy
we're not Taiwan they're much smaller
country a lot fewer people but how do in
our democracy to be become a lot better
prepared for dealing with a pen because
you know there's going to be something
else that comes you know in the future
and so we can't just you know forget
about it like we forgot about SARS
we actually need to learn something this
time apply technology but apply it in a
humane way that that really recognizes
we're a free society and and and
citizens want their data security and
privacy intact when you were when you
were active in the Air Force and you
lived in China and you had all these
pandemics that's being talked about more
over there than here did you ever expect
someone like this to get to the point in
u.s. where everybody would be forced to
shut down for as long as we've been shut
down no but you know what that's that's
to be expected because I didn't think
you know I understood you know as I said
as early as 2008 that we could have a
potentially a pandemic that would be
devastating but you don't really think
about the consequences you know I I
didn't sit there and dwell on okay this
would actually be the economic
devastation would actually be worse it's
only after you know the first week of
this shutdown that I realized oh my gosh
first of all the models are incorrect
they are hyper-inflated now that's the
first week of this shutdown and I
realize okay what's going to happen here
is based on the data that I'm seeing the
empirical
the actual deaths that are happening the
actual infections that we're finding
that this is not going to be as severe
as the models are predicting and the
models are driving us to shut the
country down and as we shut the country
down you know what happens companies
close businesses close people are
unemployed we've got I think now is 23
million we're looking at something like
40 million people being unemployed in
the short period of time oh by the way
food factories have shut down so
warehouses are starting to drain and
supermarkets are going to be next we
this country the way we do logistics and
delivery of supplies is not meant for a
long-term shutdown and so what I
realized after the first week is if we
didn't figure out how to deal with this
and open the country back up the
economic devastation would be far worse
to our social fabric than anything the
coronavirus could do and of course
that's played out exactly as I said so
so if you were somebody who was in
charge and now that we have some more
data would you say open it back up to
getting the economy going and businesses
opening back up is it is that what
you're suggesting that it's time for us
to do that yeah I would institute
randomized testing of the entire
population randomized we don't have to
test every single statistics works we
can we can do random testing I would
institute masks and social distancing
and I would put people back to work and
for those that were most at risk I would
say continue to quarantine and and tell
this abate but here's the deal those
people aren't going to want to stay
cooped up for 12 to 18 months the duck
doctor foul she thinks it's going to
take to get a vaccine so what I what I
predict will happen is people will be
wearing these masks for about two weeks
and then they'll be back to work and
then the masks are going to come off and
then they're just going to start living
their lives again I think what we what
we have now is mass hysteria and mass
fear and we need to get back in contact
with each other again and as we get back
in contact with the each other again
we'll realize that we're not going to
die every time we see somebody and when
that happens we're gonna get tired of
wearing masks and and you know doing the
elbow bump and it's gonna go back to the
way things were but we need to be able
to get people out of their homes and in
contact with each other and actually
running the economy because if we don't
we're gonna be in a big trouble and the
country is not gonna be able to deal
with the social disorder that's gonna
come from this long-term economic
shutdown is the way of doing business
forever changed or no we'll forget about
this and move on in the next six twelve
months we'll forget about it and move on
you think we're gonna forget about it
and move on I think we're gonna forget
about it and move on interesting people
have very short memories they just need
to get rid of the fear create some
certainty understand that no everybody's
not gonna die some people won't even get
sick most people 85% of the people or so
will not even have symptoms it's a big
number 85% of mourning minutes and
you're hearing about some people even
being immune to it meaning they can't
even get it like even if you and that
that would be that would be you know the
85% that don't have symptoms I mean
essentially disease really comes from
the reaction of the body to fighting the
organism in the fact that you have some
pre-existing medical condition or you're
elderly so you're thinking a part of the
solution is immediate hurt immunity with
a form of quarantine for those who are
above a certain age to keep staying safe
until this goes back to normal so you're
for a form of heart immunity so yes but
I'm also for flattening the curve I
recognize that and particularly and this
is what I said also in the beginning the
entire country is not New York if you've
lived in New York and I have you
understand the population density is
such that it needs to act differently
than Fresno California where
grew up right we're not packed like
sardines in Fresno California but we
definitely are in Manhattan and 40% of
the people are riding the the subway so
that's a different situation so each
each locality in the United States needs
to have different rules peculiar to that
locality and then we need to take four
top precautions as I said so I'm not
against flattening the curve and so if
we wanted to take two weeks off until we
could get the right procedures so that
people were understood that you wear a
mask not to protect yourself you wear a
mask to protect other people from what's
coming what you're breathing out so if
you are asymptomatic you're not
breathing those out up to 13 feet away
from your body and so and then not
shaking hands again that makes sense in
this current environment but here's the
deal if we don't have a vaccine in 18
months like foul Chi says then what are
those people that are at risk going to
do I mean there's been people that are
eighty-five years old that have lived
through the virus people do not do well
if they're cooped up in their house for
months on end and this country won't do
well economically if we do that and so
you had to do some curve flattening but
then we needed to get right back to work
and really understand that we are gonna
get through this it's not this corona
virus is not so deadly so much more
deadly than the common flu we lost
60,000 people last year to the flu by
the way how was your current life right
now what are you doing are you staying
home are you going out what are you
doing I'm just curious I am all the
people that I would typically interact
with all of those organizations and
offices are shut down so the only thing
I can do to interact and to continue to
do what I do which is press and push the
message about the Chinese Communist
Party is do like I'm doing here we'll
just do it virtually look that being
said here's some good here's some good
news the federal government actually
meant or the Congress actually mandated
the federal government implement
telecommunicator
telecommunication for as much or
telework for as much of the work
for us as possible and the federal
government's basically ignored that
fruit for decades and hopefully what's
come out of this is realization
hey that we can be somewhat productive
doing telework we don't want to do it
all but we can we can save money on
transportation we can save the waste of
time that we're in the vehicle by doing
a lot of things virtually we don't want
to do everything virtually but I think
that's one of the benefits of this
actually shut down is really recognizing
that we can work like this it's a
driving you nuts or no I'm going
stir-crazy
yeah I understand so you were you were
in China when SARS happen weren't you I
think you were living in China when SARS
happened I was what was what was it like
when in China was there a hysteria or
was it just kind of like they're used to
it and had certain steps that they took
so again I didn't understand the Chinese
Communist Party at the time so I
actually believed I actually believed
what Beijing was saying and at the time
it was in southern China where it
started I think Guangzhou and then it
spread to Beijing and you know do the
dude do the geography Shanghai's between
BA Wong Joe and Beijing so I thought it
odd that Shanghai had hardly any any
sicknesses and I thought well there's
something wrong there but and that leads
us to saying we weren't huddling in our
house what happened was all of the all
the embassy people in in the u.s. were
evacuated when stars happened and but
they forgot about us me and my family so
we were living in Shanghai and everybody
had been evacuated for like a month and
then somebody picks up the phone and
calls me in Shanghai and they say we
forgot we forgot about you
would you like to be evacuated thought
okay well if everybody else is evacuated
even though the numbers are low here in
China right now I've not always seemed
weird to be maybe we it's it's wise that
we evacuate so we eventually evacuated
and then within a couple of months you
know everything was clear and we came
back how quickly that they
clear up there was it I mean meaning
culturally was the news saying Oh
everything's okay everything is fine
it's nothing bad you know just kind of
like right now the news we only have 80
mm cases only 3,000 people have died and
we haven't had any death since we've
opened up how much of it was the media
trying to control the narrative because
the media is controlled by the
government how much of it was controlled
by the government
yeah I mean I think it was again they
were doing the exact so how the
government reacted now that I you know
as I look back I realized they were
doing the exact same things exactly to
do it as to be as today same thing
Robert with coronavirus going on last
time you and I spoke this wasn't going
on how how has your opinion about China
changed the last five months well my
opinion hasn't changed at all what what
I'm what I'm thankful to see is
everybody is starting to have the
awakening that I had in 2014 when I
opened that email from from the guy from
New York and looked at that you know the
devastation of our economy you know that
the audit firm had found and and and
that's when my eyes opened I think
what's happening now the coronavirus is
enabling not just Americans people all
over the world to see for the first time
with clear eyes what the Chinese
Communist Party is and what they
represent so a lot of your theories
where you were getting criticism for
last year now people are saying well
Robert I agree with you you'll get your
you're getting that experience with
people today absolutely and not only
that you know they're buying the book
stealth war and they're they're reading
it and they're understanding it you know
look Patrick I knew that eventually
people would wake up because it's just
it's it's pure facts you can see what's
going on and when and all it took was
something to awaken them and so what's
happening now in terms of realization I
think is something that I always
expected I just thought it was going to
come long it was gonna take a longer
amount of time for me to be out there
messaging you know the corona
actually the other silver lining other
than telecommuting is the the awakening
of the American people and other
democracies to what totalitarianism is
what the Chinese Communist Party is and
and how democracies really need to
respond in a globalized world to the
presence of totalitarianism in our midst
how is China held accountable moving
forward how does the world how does
America a whole China accountable moving
forward well I think there's a number of
ways we could continue with what the
federal government is doing
we could make tariffs permanent like
back before they enter the WTO because
they have a non market-based economy you
all of these countries that have belt
and road initiative projects could
collectively decide to default on their
payments all of them together and then
we can also seek reparations from across
the board from all countries because you
know trillions of dollars in lost
economic productivity you know thousands
of people killed in in and made sick
this was we know it was purposely done
by the Chinese Communist Party it's
clear that you know any any reparations
we want to get at this at this point
would be would be warranted how much do
you trust the World Health
Organisation's zero zero zero so so it's
fair to say that you and Ted Rose are
not on texting mode I think he I think
he tweeted yesterday love and I said I
tweeted me some CCP do you think he is
in bed with those guys absolutely a
hundred percent meaning I had no doubt
in my mind why do you say that well
because he if he wasn't why would he
knowing that there's human to human
transmission not call for a global
pandemic
warning prior to those 5 million people
live in Wuhan he enabled it so that the
Chinese come his party perpetrated it
and the w-h-o who's has a responsibility
to warn the public just like the CDC of
Taiwan warned its public except world
means everybody they have their
responsibility to unflinchingly go to
China ask the hard questions if they get
the wrong answers turn around say global
pandemic shut it down and T dose is
there having news conferences saying we
should not stigmatize China and we
should allow travel you know there's no
problem here okay meaning you guys keep
your airports open and and all these
infected people are gonna go to Europe
then they're gonna go to New York and
we're gonna have tens of thousands of
people die that's what T Joe's did how
did he get hired how do you get the job
by the way it was pushed
he's backed by China and so was a prior
director-general of the whu-oh so it's
actually been under the influence of the
Chinese Communist Party for quite some
time do you think Trump's making a right
move saying they're going to be fund
them what what person in his right mind
would fund an organization that is under
the influence of a totalitarian regime
and absolutely incapable of doing this
job that doesn't make any sense that we
send four hundred let's take that four
hundred million and let's reform the CDC
and and and tell them to learn some
lessons from Taiwan and actually
implement them here so the next time
this happens by God we're in better
place who do you trust more World Trade
Organization or World Health
Organization I would put him on in the I
would say I trust it would WTO about a
half millimeters you know hair lengths
above the w-h-o you you think guys like
this because sometimes you hear these
stories you think guys like this are
getting paid on the side that no one
knows about from child or you think out
you think t dross is getting paid on the
side and no one knows about that there
is something
there is some renumeration that's going
on that we will probably never have
insight into no doubt in my mind who
does he report to who does well who does
T Drew's report to and World Health
Organization who holds them accountable
that's a good question I would assume
that the the secretary-general of the
United Nations but you know and at the
end of the day you know all of these
international institutions don't report
to anybody that's the whole point of the
system it's it's kind of a you know we
come together and and agree on a set of
rules that we're gonna abide by and
that's what I've been trying to say is
when you bring it to Attalla tearing the
regime into that system that doesn't
play by the rules who then has the power
to influence that system instead of
democratic principles human rights civil
liberty rule or law self-determination
free trade you get the opposite do you
think this method of running the country
can last a long time or do you think a
collapse like Gordon Chang talks about
is around the corner I don't think it
collapses around the corner unless
democracies recognize what's going on
and work to limit the influence of the
Chinese Communist Party both in their
own countries and in international
institutions it's there's no way that
they have too much access to innovation
technology talent and capital from the
West from all sectors they're gonna be
fine you know if we were actually
managed as democracies to come together
so forget about the w-h-o democracies
need to recognize that the international
institutions aren't promoting the
principles and values that they espouse
and they just need to work together
bilaterally and then over time
multilaterally to ensure those
principles are reinforced in in
institutions like the United Nations and
the World Health Organization and the
World Trade Organization it's politics
geopolitics is just like politics on a
local or a national level the more that
you have on your side that are actually
pushing for preservation of the system
and preservation of the prince
well that side will win out over those
that are trying to tear it down and I
think what's happened is the democracies
of the world have kind of let the
authoritarians take over using money and
influence and they've been very
successful at it it's time for us to
take back ownership of the international
order and promote the kind of principles
that we want to see go forward and
propagate in the world makes you makes
you think you know I asked this question
for a few other people on Kherson of
what you say about this is you know
we're sitting here and we're
strong-armed in China we're negotiating
with them but at the same time hey you
we need some masks where's it made China
well listen we got to take it anyways
hey we need these ventilators I take
them anyways hey we need this some
medicine if they come up with a solution
for coronavirus well China's 80% of our
most built over there have we gone too
far where the world is relying a little
too much on China and China knows it and
uses that as leverage to negotiate and
push people around 100% absolutely how
do you get away from that well first of
all you go back to making tariffs
permanent because they there are human
rights violators and they don't have a
free market economy you don't allow US
corporations to count assets held in
China because they have a non
convertible currency and strict capital
controls you don't allow our retirement
funds to invest in Chinese companies and
Chinese bonds and stocks because we
don't require them to be audited like we
do US companies you basically just make
the Chinese abide by all the same rules
that Americans and American companies
have to abide by here in the in the
United States and you do that with all
our allies and partners and when you do
that they don't have purchase right they
have to compete on a level playing field
that's not what they're used to they're
used to getting their way and we did
that for a reason we did that because we
thought they would democratize they
would liberalize politically they would
become more like us what they've created
is a world that that drives us to be
more like them
I ask you this question last time I
wondering too if your answer has changed
at all who needs whom or is it us needs
China or does China need us the u.s.
doesn't need China at all at all economy
does not derive you know a majority of
its value from China derives the
majority of its value domestically we
have a very good consumption based
economy here in the United States and
you know but the Chinese economy
absolutely is dependent on the United
States and so and other democratic
economies and so there's is a an
export-driven economy so we don't need
China at all they absolutely need us if
that's the case why aren't we coming
together on the same page and pushing
them a little bit to say hey you know
you got to open it up and if you want us
to be more comfortable I want you to
allow Facebook YouTube Twitter social
media media everybody in China because
we got to know what's going on there
because we don't trust in your data well
that's just not going to happen the
Chinese Communist Party's not going to
do that the reason our corporations in
our in our in our investment banks are
pushing for us to be there is because
you know the the Chinese government
subsidizes power to the factories they
they allow them you know through the
inspectors not to buy by environmental
rules you've got nets around the Foxconn
plant because people jump out because of
the the intense you know labor the
violations that are going on in China so
it's all the other horrible things that
we live through in our economy but
because we're a democracy we put in
labor laws and we put in environmental
protections you know we actually dealt
with this kind of behavior
all of these corporations have gone over
to China where the rules don't exist the
only rule is that the Chinese Communist
Party stays in in control and that
allows companies like Apple to have 260
billion dollars in cash because their
margins are incredibly steep because of
those reasons on the Investment Bank
side they get a fee for every Chinese
stock in Chinese bond that's sold and so
they're more than willing to push it
even you even saw with a
coronavirus and the fact that trade
wears on you still got investment banks
in Wall Street pushing Chinese stocks
saying this is where you need to invest
it just it really lets you know you know
what's going on the system is
incentivized to provide the Chinese
Communist Party with everything they
need the system is incentivized to
provide the Chinese party with
everything that means what does that
mean that means we set the rules to
benefit Chinese companies in the Chinese
companies and the government have taken
advantage of those rules to be a
predatory or a better word a parasitic
economy on the United States and other
democracies and unless we cut those ties
it's just like if you have a tumor the
tumor continues to pull more and more
blood from your body the same thing that
China will do it will more and more
blood from from from the American
Society uh let me ask you your one your
very good friends Joe Biden if you don't
mind me talking about your good friend
Joe Biden how how do you feel about him
now being the you know nominees that he
said you know Warren is endorsing him
you know the Sanders endorsed them and
oh my gosh Obama's not endorsing and
this is catastrophic Obama endorses him
Buddha check everybody Super Tuesday
he's had momentum right what what
happens to us if Biden gets elected
let's just say this happens and let's
just say they can kind of get people to
do voting from you know home and they
don't have to go and you know voter
fraud and all that stuff happens what
what does America look like in 2021 if
Joe Biden is president okay well so you
have to understand that I'm a little bit
of a different I'm a little bit of a
different species when it comes to
voting I'm right now I'm a 1 I'm a
one-issue voter it really is our
relationship with the Chinese Communist
Party so as I look around so first of
all I'm not really content with any
politician that's been in politics for
decades in this country because I think
that they completely missed what was
going on with regard to China that being
said you know between but let's say so
let's look at the Democratic side
between Biden and Pelosi I would be more
inclined to elect Pelosi then I would
Biden because at least Pelosi has been
consistent about her views on China and
the Chinese Communist Party that has
been what whether whether you like her
politics or not that she's been
consistent on on the on the right you
know I don't know anybody that's been
consistent for a long time on the
Chinese Communist Party and they
probably wouldn't be in politics if they
had and so I think one of the challenges
that we have is you know anybody that's
an established establishment politician
that's running for the highest office in
the land is not prepared to lead us away
from the Chinese Communist Party that's
the way I look at it I don't I don't
favor Biden just because I think he he
clearly has a favoritism towards China
and the Chinese Communist Party do you
think the the the tariffs would go away
if Biden becomes president with China
you know I don't know that we'd have a
different outcome because I do see that
some of the younger politicians are
starting to come around to understanding
the danger and the threat of the Chinese
Communist Party doesn't matter if
they're on the rat right or if they're
on the left so I think it'd be a much
harder to get you know the things
through Congress but what would happen
is is you know he just would not you you
would slow things down that need to be
done to protect the American population
so I want to see somebody in there
that's aggressively going after this and
you know and then let's let's go another
four years where we're actually focused
on protecting our businesses and our
people and then let's see where we stand
before we even think about you know
having a more open you know policy with
regard to China the Chinese Communist
Party is not going to change so I would
say that you know you have to view that
with with clear eyes do you think
president Trump's the right leader
during times like this to continue
challenging and push in China I think he
is and and the reason is is because he's
not a Paul
petition and you know what I saw when I
was at the White House is look he just
asked questions and and for me you know
if you're sometimes it is the case that
the best leader for a situation is one
that didn't grow up in the system
because then they can question why the
system is the way it is they can ask
questions and if they don't get good
answers then they can make a decision
that no other person that grew up in
that system would be willing to make the
hardest thing it is for for people to do
that that have been in a bureaucracy for
four decades is really realize that
they've been going the wrong way for a
long time and those people are very hard
to convince and and so I would I would
definitely look at somebody that's
outside the mainstream you know to make
the change now what I see coming forward
is there's a lot of you know both
Republican and Democratic senators and
congressmen and women that are actually
waking up and so I feel much more
comfortable about our future in terms of
the establishment because they're going
to be established during a time when we
recognize the threat and they're going
to be they're going to be more wary of
it you know but of course you know the
problem with with this current system is
term limits allows for all of these
people that have you know really just
been in the government all their lives
and haven't actually had to go and and
live out in society so I think in a way
because we don't have term limits we
have a disconnect between our
politicians that have been in office for
decades and the populace if this
continues past November you see Trump
still getting reelected I hope so
I'm confident that he will because I
think the people recognize that you know
we have to go a different we have to go
in a different way which is by the way
why a socialist young Bernie Sanders
almost won you know the primary last
time I think this time you know the
Democratic Party doesn't really it's got
a it's got it it's got to come to grips
with the fact that it's got a
significant percentage of its of its
base that does
agree with with bide Nessa pick a big I
mean AOC is going after him hardcore
she's not even slowing down at all
okay so let's shift back to the 5g
conversation with coronavirus when I
asked you earlier I said do you see any
thing being a link between 5 g and
coronavirus you said absolutely not tell
me why well you know I saw a couple of
these videos where you know the guy said
that I can't remember the guys name but
he said basically that you know there's
a theory that radiation has caused
genetic breakdown of the body and you're
treated pieces of genetic code and
that's what viruses are they're not
they're not actually organisms they're
pieces of your DNA that have been broken
off by this radiation and they're
expressing themselves you know out of
your orifices and this is just
indicative of widespread radiation
that's just that's that's that's fiction
that's not science and so you know
viruses do exist they are organisms and
they have a specific way of doing the
things that they do and and so you know
five first of all 5g is not very widely
deployed right 18 T has 5 G on their
phone but that's not 5g most companies
in the West are deploying 5g radios on a
very very slow rate because the telecom
industry is really a dying industry for
each added bit of capacity the financial
returns just aren't there for them to
add more capacity so they're really
they're really slowing down the
deployment of 5g the only ones by the
way that are deploying 5g at a very high
rate is China and of course South Korea
did it
now South Korea did it it's got a
smaller country a smaller population
that's got much more broadband
penetration in the society it really
wants to be on the leadership of Science
and Technology and so it's it did it as
a national strategic decision China is
doing it as a national strategic
decision
but they're not just deploying it in
China their deployment in any country
that will take far away so the biggest
deployments in 5g are coming from the
Chinese clearly so you know if that's so
then you say well one is the is the
start of it because of all the 5g that
China has been - point well I would say
that you've got a higher probability
that it came from the p4 lab you know
where they were working on that virus
you know for the Pacific
gain-of-function
that's why more likely it came out not
because you know 5g it's just it's it's
it's it's it's like it's like you know
the term the magic term alchemy you know
it's a blend of science and magic and so
it sounds plausible when you listen to
these videos but it breaks down under
under scrutiny under rigorous scientific
scrutiny you know viruses are real
they're not excretions of your DNA
because you've been radiated it's just
not it's just not science last thing
before we wrap up is I don't know if you
heard yesterday the CEO of Huawei
stepped down
so as of yesterday he stepped down and
he replaced himself with jinpu ren
jingfei
shanghai is no longer the director now
it's jim poo and british intelligence is
a challenging UK to reconsider their
relationship with Huawei putting
stricter control of high tech and other
industries that are coming in and why we
responds in an open letter calling not
to change its partnership on 5g with
Huawei this was to UK if they do it will
cause them harm meaning it'll cause UK
harm and then obviously you know about
the fact that with France they needed to
buy some medical equipment from China
and China said we will sell it to him
we'll make it for you if you agree to
use Huawei to allowed it to come to
France what do you think about when
you're seeing a country like UK telling
China no we
to do business we no longer want to do
business with you and they're getting
that kind of recommendation to them well
you know I think UK is a very special
case you know 15 years ago British
Telecom went all hallway and and so that
means they have to build an entire new
network from scratch really nobody else
has to do that so always new is gonna be
hard to get them over the hurdle but not
impossible it's just gonna take a lot
longer amount of time so you know it I
think what did what did what you didn't
what you didn't say is that they
actually also went probably went try to
went to India with Huawei and told the
Indians if you take Huawei it'll make
you better able to control the
coronavirus because you know the sensors
that you can attach the network will
allow you to to monitor the population
for for fevers and do contact tracing so
so they're actually using it as a
selling mechanism for 5g I think what
you're seeing is the whole world is
waking up to the danger of it's not 5g
it's data security it's really privacy
and data security that's that's a
challenge and artificial intelligence I
don't think I said this last time but go
read the AI superpower by Kai Cooley
he's China's leading artificial
intelligence researcher what Caillou Lee
says is that China is to data as Saudi
Arabia is to oil in other words the
strategy of China is to become the Saudi
Arabia of data why because it drives
artificial intelligence that's what
they're after they're after the ability
to be dominant in the economic sphere in
the social sphere and the political
sphere and in the military sphere and
owning all that data will allow them to
have the artificial intelligence to do
that that's what they believe that's
that's pretty that's pretty powerful
right there
to say they want all the data I remember
10 years ago 12 years ago TED talks had
a conference and they said one of the
main things moving forward is going to
be data everything's about data and we
know now everything is data everybody
who's building any kind of data
companies nowadays you want to go to
college the right degree to get its
predictive analytics because they're
hiring you
left and right for folks who understand
predictive analytics Robert I'll give
you the final thought anything here now
you want to share with us before we wrap
this up with coronavirus with the
current conditions where people all
right people have a lot of thoughts a
lot of questions a lot of fears a lot of
concerns they're watching a news 24/7
with notifications telling them you know
these are terrible times and scary times
what are your final thoughts for us here
you're gonna be better than fine you
know I see this country coming out of
this coronavirus and coming out of this
tight relationship with the Chinese
Communist Party and making our our
society our economy our people stronger
than ever
you know freer than ever I really
believe we have everything in front of
us and we have all the things that we
need we have all the resources we need
we have the people we have the talented
people we have you know the Constitution
that provides us you know a freedom to
lived a life and the way that we want I
think you know I'm extremely positive on
America you know I can I can say with
confidence that in spite of all this
this is we are probably on the precipice
of unprecedented economic growth in
science and technology advancement we
just we we need to recognize what we
have in front of us and seize it
so you're bullish with the economy with
the market I'm bullish I am I am 100%
all in long America I love it well
listen it's good to have you back here
with us if you're watching this you
haven't read us books tell Ford you must
read it we're gonna put the link while I
read it in one sit down when I read I
couldn't put it down we'll put the link
below also contact information if you
want a book Robert for speaking or any
other gigs we're gonna put the link
below as where to get a hold and having
said that Robert thank you so much for
coming back to vitamin and being a guest
again thank you Patrick's great to see
you again look if there's one thing I
will tell you if you've not read his
book stealth war it's a must read I
don't get paid to tell you this thing
here he didn't ask me to do this I'm
doing this here is the reason why I'm
doing this with you is because moving
forward you have to know about China
thirty years ago you had to know about
Russia today you have to educate our
wife husband kit you need to know about
if you plan
doing business making millions you need
to know about China so if you've not
read the book click on a link below go
by the book stealth war outsider that to
other interviews I want you to watch one
of them is the first one we did with him
which was a very deep with them if you
haven't watched a click over here to
watch us the other one is interview with
Danielle the Martino booth an economist
who worked for the Federal Reserve in
Dallas for nine years the perspective
she gave let me just put it to you this
way her interview was picked up by media
all over the world if you've not watched
this it's a must and if you've not
subscribed to the channel please do so
thanks for watching your buddy take care
bye-bye
[Music]